releases: add TiDB 6.1.1 release notes (#10139)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.1.1.md

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: 2022-xx-xx

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

<!-- <planner> -->
(dup: release-6.2.0.md > # Performance)[User document](/optimizer-hints.md#semi_join_rewrite) [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)
(dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use indexes to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)

<!-- <transaction> -->
(dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

+ TiKV

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - Support filter useless metrics samples to reduce the metrics data size. (#12649)
    - Support encode metrics response with gzip to reduce the http body size (#12647)
    - Make max_subcompactions dynamically changeable (#13146)
```

    - In the new backup organization structure, we will see: `./br backup --pd "127.0.0.1:2379" -s "s3://backup/20220621" - After br command finished, we will have the structure below. ➜ backup tree . . └── 20220621 ├── backupmeta ├── store1 │ └── backup-xxx.sst ├── store100 │ └── backup-yyy.sst ├── store2 │ └── backup-zzz.sst ├── store3 ├── store4 └── store5` [#13063](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13063)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)

> 

Reviewer 2: + TiDB Lightning
  - add retry strategy on `stale command` error [#36877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36877)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

<!-- <execution> -->

> - executor: fix index_lookup_hash_join hang when used with limit [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638)

Reviewer 3: Fix the issue that IndexLookupHashJoin may hangs when used with limit [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638)
Fix the issue that TiDB may panic during update stmt [#32311](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32311)
Fix the bug that `show columns` may send cop request [#36496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36496)
Fix bug that `show warnings` may return `invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` error [#31569](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31569)
Fix the case sensitive issues for `show database like` statement [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)
Fix bug that static partition prune may return wrong result for agg query if the table is empty [#35295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35295)

<!-- <planner> -->
- planner: fix outer join reorder will push down its outer join condition [#37238](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37238)

> - planner: fix cte-schema-clone will clone the old hashcode of its column if any [#35404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35404)

Reviewer 4: @chrysan I think we don't need the 'component name' in the release note(they're useful for developers only), for example:

```
planner: fix the wrong join reorder produced by some right ouer join #36912
```

Could be simplified as:
```
Fix the wrong join reorder produced by some right ouer join #36912
```

> - planner: fix cte-schema-clone will clone the old hashcode of its column if any [#35404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35404)

Reviewer 5: thx, updated.

<!-- <sql-infra> -->

> (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that querying partitioned tables might report "index-out-of-range" and "non used index" errors in some cases [#35181](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35181)

Reviewer 4: - Fix the issue that querying partitioned tables might report "index-out-of-range" and "non-used index" errors in some cases [#35181](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35181)
- Fix the issue that when using TiDB with Binlog, the Drainer may crash because the invalid schema version after `ALTER SEQUENCE` statement [#36276](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36276)
- Fix the incorrect TiDB states that may appear on startup under very extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791)
- Fix the issue that the execution plans for the partition table may show `UnknownPlanID` in TiDB Dashboard. [#35153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35153)

- ddl: fix alter sequence will generate schemaVer=0 when alter options are the same as the old [#36276](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36276)
- Fix that incorrect TiDB states may appear on startup under very, very, very extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791)
- Fix the "UnknownPlanID" issue. [#35153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35153)

<!-- <transaction> -->

> (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the LOAD DATA statement [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer 6: - Remove the limitation of `tidb_gc_life_time` [#35392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35392)
- Fix the load data statement dead loop when an empty filed terminator is used [#33298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33298)
- Fix the long recovery time issue when the hiberate region is used. [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

(dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue of the `data and columnID count not match` error that occurs when inserting duplicated values with TiDB Binlog enabled [#33608](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33608)

+ TiKV

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - Fix a rare case panic when enabling raft-engine [#12698](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12698)
    - Avoid redundant log warnings when procfs is not available [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)
    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)
    - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
    - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and raft engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
```

    - Fix a bug that regions may be overlapped if raftstore is too busy [#13160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13160)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that PD does not reconnect to TiKV after the Region heartbeat is interrupted [#12934](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12934)

>     - remove call_option to avoid deadlock(RWR). [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV panics when performing type conversion for an empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of inconsistent Region size configuration between TiKV and PD [#12518](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12518)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that encryption keys are not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#12890](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12890)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)

>     - Fix potential deadlock in `RpcClient` when two read locks are interleaved by a write lock. [#12933](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12933)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when the source peer catches up logs by snapshot in the Region merge process [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of frequent PD client reconnection that occurs when the PD client meets an error [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345)
    - Fix encryption keys not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that the Commit Log Duration of a new Region is too high, which causes QPS to drop [#13077](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13077)

>     (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: It's moved to improvement.

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings. [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)

>     - grpc: fix the wrong error handler [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)

Reviewer 7: - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings. [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
- Fix the problem that grpc handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
- Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

+ TiFlash

    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes in some situations [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)

>     - Fix the issue that format throw data truncated error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)

Reviewer 3: Fix the bug that `format` funtion may throw data t runcated error in some corner cases [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)
Fix the bug that error in paralell aggregation may cause TiFlash crash [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356) 
Fix the bug that MinTSOScheduler may leak thread resource when query meet error [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556)

    - Fix a bug that TiFlash can not work in a cluster using ipv6 [#5247](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5247)
    - Fix a panic issue in parallel aggregation when an exception is thrown. [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the wrong maximum compatible version number [#6039](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6039)
        - Fix a bug that may cause cdc server panic if it received a http request before cdc server fully started. [#5639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5639)
        - Fix ddl sink panic when changefeed syncpoint is enable. [#4934](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4934)
        - Fix a data race in black hole sink. [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5714)
        - Fix a bug that causes get changefeeds api does not well after cdc server restart. [#5837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5837)
        - Fix a data race in black hole sink. [#6206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6206)
        - Fix TiCDC panic issue when disable the old value of changefeed [#6198](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6198)

> 

Reviewer 8: - Fix some data consistency problems when enabling redo log  feature.[#6198][#6240][#6277][#6456][#6695][6764][6859][5920]
- Fix the performance problem about the redo log by 
 writing redo event asynchronoursly [#6011] 
- Add a parameter to enable split the big transaction in a changefeed [#5231]
- Reduce the goroutine number when initializing a capture with lots of regions[#5610]
- An enhancement of MySQL sink to turn off safe-mode automatically [#5611]
- Fix the changefeed stuck problem when enabling sync-point in some special situation [#6827]
- Fix the problem when mysql sink connected to ipv6 address[#6135]

Reviewer 8: add

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

> 

Reviewer 9: Adjust the backup organization structure and add a store_id related prefix under the backup path.
[#30087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30087)

        (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [#35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)

    + Dumpling

        - use net.JoinHostPort to generate host-port part of URI [#36112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36112)

    + TiDB Lightning

> 

Reviewer 2: - fix connect to tidb when using ipv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)
- add ReadIndexNotReady as retryable ingest error [#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566)
- hide sensitive log for server mode lightning [#36374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36374)

        - support column starts with slash/number/non-ascii for parquet file [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)
        - fix connect to tidb when using ipv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

>     + TiDB Data Migration

Reviewer 2: - Fix the 'txn-entry-size-limit' config is not effective in DM [#6161](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6161)
- Fix a bug that get tables without using quote schema name [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)
- Fix the issue of the possible data race in query-status [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: 2022-xx-xx

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)
    - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join is enabled by default.

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

+ Diagnosis

- Continuous Profiling is now disabled by default.
```

+ TiDB

<!-- <planner> -->
(dup: release-6.2.0.md > # Performance)[User document](/optimizer-hints.md#semi_join_rewrite) [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)
(dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use indexes to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)

<!-- <transaction> -->
(dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    - Support filter useless metrics samples to reduce the metrics data size. [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145)

> 

Author: PD
 - 改进 balance region 在空间快均衡阶段的调度速度 [#5320](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/5320)

> 

Reviewer 7: PD
 - Improve the speed of the balance region during the stage `close to finish` #5320

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that the Commit Log Duration of a new Region is too high, which causes QPS to drop [#13077](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13077)
    - Fix a rare case panic when enabling raft-engine [#12698](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12698)
    - Avoid redundant log warnings when procfs is not available [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)
    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)
    - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
    - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and raft engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
    - Refactor pd client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR). [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings. [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
    - Fix the problem that grpc handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)

>     - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)
    - 修复 gRPC 处理返回错误不恰当的问题 [#5376](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/5376)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: September 1, 2022

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - Make the `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` statement case-insensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766) @[e1ijah1](https://github.com/e1ijah1)
    - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join by default.

+ Diagnosis

>     - Disable the Continuous Profiling feature by default, which avoids the possible TiFlash OOM issue that occurs when this feature is enabled. For details, see [#5687](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5687) @[mornyx](https://github.com/mornyx)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Disable the Continuous Profiling feature by default, which avoids the possible TiFlash crash issue that occurs when this feature is enabled. For details, see [#5687](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5687) @[mornyx](https://github.com/mornyx)
```

## Other changes

- Add the following contents in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package. For details, see [TiDB Installation Packages](/binary-package.md).

    - `server-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `grafana-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `alertmanager-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `prometheus-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `blackbox_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `node_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`

> - Introduce multi-level supports for different operating systems or platforms. See [].

Author: ```suggestion
- Introduce multi-level support for different quality standards on the combination of operating systems and CPU architectures. See [OS and platform requirements](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements).
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Add a new optimizer `SEMI_JOIN_REWRITE` to improve the performance of `EXISTS` queries [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ TiKV

    - Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Support reducing the amount of data returned for each request by filtering out some metrics using the [`server.simplify-metrics`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#simplify-metrics-new-in-v620) configuration item [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support reducing the amount of data returned for each request by filtering out some metrics using the [`server.simplify-metrics`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tikv-configuration-file#simplify-metrics-new-in-v611) configuration item [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

+ Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add a retry mechanism on errors such as `stale command` to improve import success rate [#36877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36877) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Users can manually set the amount of concurrency for lightning loader [#5505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5505) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)

    + TiCDC

        - Add a sink uri parameter `transaction-atomicity` to support splitting the large transaction in a changefeed. This can greatly reduce the latency and memory consumption of large transactions [#5231](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5231) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Enhance the MySQL sink to turn off the safe mode automatically [#5611](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5611) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that `INL_HASH_JOIN ` might hang when used with `LIMIT` [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `INL_HASH_JOIN` might hang when used with `LIMIT` [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

        - Support columns that start with slash/number/non-ascii characters for Parquet files [36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)
        - Fix the issue that de-duplication might result in panic in extreme cases [#36163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when `compressor` is set to `gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

    + TiDB Data Migration

        - Fix the issue that the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item does not take effect in DM [#6161](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6161)
        - Fix the issue that the `check-task` command cannot handle special characters [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)
        - Fix the issue of the possible data race in `query-status` [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)
        - Fix the different output format for the `operate-schema` command [#5688](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5688)
        - Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193)

>         - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)

Reviewer 2: - Fix start failed when use IPv6 [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)

>         - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)
        - Fix the issue that DM fails to start when TiDB uses IPv6 host [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV panics when performing type conversion for an empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of inconsistent Region size configuration between TiKV and PD [#12518](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12518)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that encryption keys are not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#12890](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12890)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when the source peer catches up logs by snapshot in the Region merge process [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of frequent PD client reconnection that occurs when the PD client meets an error [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345)

>     - Fix encryption keys not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential panic when parallel recovery is enabled for Raft Engine [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123)
```

    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)
    - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
    - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
    - Refactor PD client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR) [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
    - Fix the problem that gRPC handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

+ TiFlash

    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes in some situations [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)

>     - Fix the issue that the `format` function might return a data truncated error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `format` function might return a `Data truncated` error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)
```

    - Fix the issue that some obsolete data might persist in storage and cannot be deleted [#5659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5659)
    - Fix unnecessary CPU usage in some edge cases [#5409](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5409)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash cannot work in a cluster using IPv6 [#5247](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5247)

>     - Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356)

Reviewer 11: No Chinese note for #5356

Reviewer 12: @ran-huang Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/11063/commits/f776d7d3259e5011a1ac3f364a4ec709ce8fcca9

>     - Fix a bug that thread resources might leak in case of MinTSOScheduler query errors [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that thread resources might leak in case of `MinTSOScheduler` query errors [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: 2022-xx-xx

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)
    - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join is enabled by default.

+ Diagnosis

    - Continuous Profiling is now disabled by default.

## Improvements

- Add some contents in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package. For details, see [TiDB Installation Packages](/binary-package.md).
- Add a document to introduce TiDB's support for different operating systems. See [].

+ TiDB

    <!-- <planner> -->

>     (dup: release-6.2.0.md > # Performance)[User document](/optimizer-hints.md#semi_join_rewrite) [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)

Author: ```suggestion
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > # Performance)- Add a new optimizer `SEMI_JOIN_REWRITE` to improve the performance of `EXISTS` queries [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)
```

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    - 支持过滤不常用 metrics 以减少流量 [#12698](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12698)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145)

+ PD

    - Improve the speed of the balance region during the stage close to completion [#5320](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/5320)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

        - add retry strategy on `stale command` error [#36877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36877)

    + TiDB Data Migration

        - User can set concurrency for lightning loader [#5505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5505)

    + TiCDC

        - Add a sink uri parameter `transaction-atomicity` to support splitting the large transaction in a changefeed. This can greatly reduce the lantency and memory consumption of large transactions. [#5231](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5231)

>         (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610)
```

>         - An enhancement of MySQL sink to turn off safe-mode automatically [#5611](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5611)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Enhance MySQL sink to turn off the safe mode automatically [#5611](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5611)
```

    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)
    - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
    - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and raft engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
    - Refactor pd client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR). [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings. [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
    - Fix the problem that grpc handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

+ TiFlash

    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes in some situations [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)

>     - Fix the issue that format throw data truncated error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)
>     - fix the problem that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5659)
>     - Reduce unnecessary CPU usage in some edge cases [#5409](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5409)
>     - Fix a bug that TiFlash can not work in a cluster using ipv6 [#5247](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5247)
>     - Fix a panic issue in parallel aggregation when an exception is thrown. [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `format` function might return a data truncated error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)
    - Fix the issue that some obsolete data might persist in storage and cannot be deleted [#5659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5659)
    - Fix unnecessary CPU usage in some edge cases [#5409](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5409)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash cannot work in a cluster using IPv6 [#5247](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5247)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356)
    - Fix a bug that thread resources might leak in case of MinTSOScheduler query errors [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556)
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix the wrong maximum compatible version number [#6039](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6039)
>         - Fix a bug that may cause cdc server panic if it received a http request before cdc server fully started. [#5639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5639)
>         - Fix ddl sink panic when changefeed syncpoint is enable. [#4934](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4934)
>         - Fix a data race in black hole sink. [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5714)
>         - Fix a bug that causes get changefeeds api does not well after cdc server restart. [#5837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5837)
>         - Fix a data race in black hole sink. [#6206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6206)
>         - Fix TiCDC panic issue when disable the old value of changefeed [#6198](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6198)
>         - Fix some data consistency problems when enabling redo log  feature.
>         [#6189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6189) [#6368](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6368) [#6277](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277) [#6456](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6456) [#6695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6695) [#6764](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6764) [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859)
>         - Fix the performance problem about the redo log by
>         writing redo event asynchronously [#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011)
>         - Fix the changefeed stuck problem when enabling sync-point in some special situation [#6827](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6827)
>         - Fix the problem when mysql sink connected to ipv6 address[#6135](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6135)

Reviewer 13: There's no 5714 in the Chinese version. Should we delete it?
```suggestion
        - Fix the wrong maximum compatible version number [#6039](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6039)
        - Fix a bug that may cause cdc server panic if it receives an HTTP request before cdc server fully starts [#5639](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5639)
        - Fix ddl sink panic when changefeed syncpoint is enabled [#4934](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4934)
        - Fix the data race issue in black hole sink. [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5714)
        - Fix a bug that changefeed API does not work after the cdc server restarts [#5837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5837)
        - Fix a data race in black hole sink. [#6206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6206)
        - Fix the TiCDC panic issue when the old value of changefeed is disabled [#6198](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6198)
        - Fix the data consistency issue when the redo log feature is enabled
        [#6189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6189) [#6368](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6368) [#6277](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277) [#6456](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6456) [#6695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6695) [#6764](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6764) [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859)
        - Fix the performance problem about the redo log by writing redo event asynchronously [#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011)
        - Fix the issue that the changefeed is stuck when sync-point is enabled in some scenarios [#6827](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6827)
        - Fix the problem when MySQL sink connected to IPv6 address [#6135](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6135)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [#35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)
        (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Adjust the backup data directory structure to fix backup failure caused by S3 rate limiting in large cluster backup [#30087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30087)

>         - Fix the incorrect backup time costs in log [#35553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35553)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Fix incorrect backup time in the summary log [#35553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35553)
```

    + Dumpling

>         - use net.JoinHostPort to generate host-port part of URI [#36112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36112)

Reviewer 12: This seems like an improvement, instead of a bug fix.

>         - use net.JoinHostPort to generate host-port part of URI [#36112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36112)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that GetDSN does not support IPv6 [#36112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36112)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

        - fix connect to tidb when using ipv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)
        - add ReadIndexNotReady as retryable ingest error [#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566)
        - hide sensitive log for server mode lightning [#36374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36374)
        - support column starts with slash/number/non-ascii for parquet file [36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)
        - Fix panic when downstream table schema has changed [#37233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/37233)

    + TiDB Binlog

>         - [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when `compressor` is set to `gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration

        - Fix the 'txn-entry-size-limit' config is not effective in DM [#6161](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6161)

>         - Fix a bug that get tables without using quote schema name [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the `check-task` command cannot handle special characters [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)
```

>         - Fix the issue of the possible data race in query-status [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of the possible data race in `query-status` [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)
```

>         - Fix different output format for `operate-schema` command [#5688](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5688)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the different output format for the `operate-schema` command [#5688](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5688)
```

>         - Fix goroutine leak when relay meet error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193)
```

>         - Fix issue of DM Worker may stuck when get DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Add a sink uri parameter `transaction-atomicity` to support splitting the large transaction in a changefeed. This can greatly reduce the lantency and memory consumption of large transactions. [#5231](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5231)
        - Reduce the goroutine number when initializing a capture with lots of regions[#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610)
        - An enhancement of MySQL sink to turn off safe-mode automatically [#5611](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5611)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    <!-- <execution> -->
    - Fix the issue that IndexLookupHashJoin may hangs when used with limit [#35638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35638)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB may panic during update stmt [#32311](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32311)
    - Fix the bug that `show columns` may send cop request [#36496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36496)
    - Fix bug that `show warnings` may return `invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` error [#31569](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31569)

>     - Fix the case sensitive issues for `show database like` statement [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix a rare case panic when enabling raft-engine [#12698](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12698)
    - Avoid redundant log warnings when procfs is not available [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)
    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)
    - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
    - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and raft engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
    - Refactor pd client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR). [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings. [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
    - Fix the problem that grpc handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

>     - 修复 gRPC 处理返回错误不恰当的问题 [#5376](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/5376)

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

> Release date: 2022-xx-xx

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: September 1, 2022
```

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Make the `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` statement case-insensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)

>     - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join is enabled by default.

Reviewer 12: Should we add an issue link to this note?
```suggestion
    - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join by default.
```

+ Diagnosis

>     - Disable the Continuous Profiling feature by default, which avoids the possible TiFlash OOM issue that occurs when this feature is enabled. For details, see [#5687](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5687). @[mornyx](https://github.com/mornyx)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Disable the Continuous Profiling feature by default, which avoids the possible TiFlash OOM issue that occurs when this feature is enabled. For details, see [#5687](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5687) @[mornyx](https://github.com/mornyx)
```

## Other changes

- Add the following contents in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package. For details, see [TiDB Installation Packages](/binary-package.md).

    - `server-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `grafana-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `alertmanager-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `prometheus-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `blackbox_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `node_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`

- Introduce multi-level supports for different operating systems or platforms. See [].

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!-- <planner> -->

>     - Add a new optimizer `SEMI_JOIN_REWRITE` to improve the performance of `EXISTS` queries [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Add a new optimizer `SEMI_JOIN_REWRITE` to improve the performance of `EXISTS` queries [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    - Support reducing the amount of data returned for each request by filtering out some metrics using the [`server.simplify-metrics`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#simplify-metrics-new-in-v620) configuration item [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145)

+ PD

>     - Improve the speed of the region balance during the stage close to completion [#4990](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4990)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Improve the scheduling speed of Balance Region in specific stages [#4990](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4990)
```

+ Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add a retry mechanism on errors such as `stale command` to improve import success rate [#36877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36877) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Users can manually set the amount of concurrency for lightning loader [#5505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5505) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)

    + TiCDC

>         - Add a sink uri parameter `transaction-atomicity` to support splitting the large transaction in a changefeed. This can greatly reduce the latency and memory consumption of large transactions. [#5231](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5231) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Add a sink uri parameter `transaction-atomicity` to support splitting the large transaction in a changefeed. This can greatly reduce the latency and memory consumption of large transactions [#5231](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5231) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

>         - - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

    - Fix the issue of incorrectly inferred null flag of the TiFlash `firstrow` aggregate function in the EqualAll case [#34584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34584) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Cache does not work when a binding is created with the `IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE` hint [#34596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34596) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - Fix the issu that an `EXCHANGE` operator is missing between the hash-partition window and the single-partition window [#35990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35990) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)
    - Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use indexes to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue of wrong query result when a wrong default value is set for partial aggregation after the aggregation is pushed down [#35295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35295) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

    <!-- <sql-infra> -->

>     - Fix the issue that querying partitioned tables might get `index-out-of-range` and `non used index` errors in some cases [#35181](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35181) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying partitioned tables might get the `index-out-of-range` error in some cases [#35181](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35181) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Fix the potential `UnknownPlanID` issue that occurs when querying the execution plans for partitioned tables in TiDB Dashboard [#35153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35153) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

    <!-- <transaction> -->
    - Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the LOAD DATA statement [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the issue of the `data and columnID count not match` error that occurs when inserting duplicated values with TiDB Binlog enabled [#33608](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33608) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Remove the limitation of `tidb_gc_life_time` [#35392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35392) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin)
    - Fix the `LOAD DATA` statement dead loop when an empty filed terminator is used [#33298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33298) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

>     - Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906) @[sticnarf (Yilin Chen)](https://github.com/sticnarf)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix a bug that Regions might be overlapped if Raftstore is busy [#13160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13160) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers)
    - Fix the issue that PD does not reconnect to TiKV after the Region heartbeat is interrupted [#12934](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12934) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when performing type conversion for an empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673) @[wshwsh12 (Shenghui Wu)](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when performing type conversion for an empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
```

    - Fix the issue of inconsistent Region size configuration between TiKV and PD [#12518](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12518) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers)

>     - Fix the issue that encryption keys are not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#12890](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12890) @[tabokie (Xinye Tao)](https://github.com/tabokie)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that encryption keys are not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled [#12890](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12890) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
```

    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825) @[BusyJay](https://github.com/BusyJay)
    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when the source peer catches up logs by snapshot in the Region merge process [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663) @[BusyJay](https://github.com/BusyJay)
    - Fix the issue of frequent PD client reconnection that occurs when the PD client meets an error [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

>     - Fix potential panic when parallel recovery is enabled for Raft Engine [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123) @[tabokie (Xinye Tao)](https://github.com/tabokie)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential panic when parallel recovery is enabled for Raft Engine [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
```

    - Avoid redundant log warnings when proc filesystem (procfs) cannot be found [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that when a Region is large, the default [`region-split-check-diff`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-check-diff) might be larger than the bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when Apply Snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the issue that the PD client might cause deadlocks [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) [#12933](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12933) @[BurtonQin (Boqin Qin](https://github.com/BurtonQin)

+ PD

>     - Fix the issue that the online progress is inaccurate when label configurations of cluster nodes are invalid[#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 12: The contributor in Chinese is [rleungx (Ryan Leung)](https://github.com/rleungx)
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the online progress is inaccurate when label configurations of cluster nodes are invalid [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix a bug that thread resources might leak in case of `MinTSOScheduler` query errors [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to connect to TiDB when TiDB uses an IPv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the `read index not ready` error by adding a retry mechanism [#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that sensitive information in logs is printed in server mode [#36374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36374) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>         - Fix the issue that de-duplication might panic in extreme cases [#34163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163) @[ForwardStar](https://github.com/ForwardStar)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that de-duplication might cause TiDB Lightning to panic in extreme cases [#34163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163) @[ForwardStar](https://github.com/ForwardStar)
```

        - Fix the ddl sink panic issue when the changefeed sync-point is enabled [#4934](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4934)    
        - Fix the issue that the changefeed is stuck in some scenarios when sync-point is enabled [#6827](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6827)
        - Fix a bug that changefeed API does not work after the cdc server restarts [#5837](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5837)
        - Fix the data race issue in the black hole sink [#6206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6206)
        - Fix the TiCDC panic issue when you set `enable-old-value = false` [#6198](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6198)
        - Fix the data consistency issue when the redo log feature is enabled [#6189](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6189) [#6368](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6368) [#6277](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277) [#6456](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6456) [#6695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6695) [#6764](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6764) [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859)

>         - Fix the performance issue about the redo log by writing redo events asynchronously [#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Fix poor redo log performance  by writing redo events asynchronously [#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011)
```

        - Fix incorrect backup time in the summary log [#35553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35553)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the issue that GetDSN does not support IPv6 [#36112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36112)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to connect to TiDB when TiDB uses IPv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)
        - Fix the `read index not ready` error by adding a retry mechanism [#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566)
        - Hide sensitive log for server mode [#36374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36374)
        - Support columns that start with slash/number/non-ascii characters for Parquet files [36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)
        - Fix the issue that de-duplication might result in panic in extreme cases [#36163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when `compressor` is set to `gzip` [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152)

>     + TiDB Data Migration

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
```

        - Fix the issue that the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item does not take effect in DM [#6161](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6161)
        - Fix the issue that the `check-task` command cannot handle special characters [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)
        - Fix the issue of the possible data race in `query-status` [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)
        - Fix the different output format for the `operate-schema` command [#5688](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5688)
        - Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193)
        - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)

>         - Fix the issue that DM fails to start when TiDB uses IPv6 host [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM fails to start when TiDB uses a IPv6 host [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: 2022-xx-xx

TiDB version: 6.1.1

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Make the `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` statement case-insensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766)
    - Change the default value of [`tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_outer_join_reorder-new-in-v610) from `1` to `0`, which disables Join Reorder's support for Outer Join is enabled by default.

+ Diagnosis

    - Disable the Continuous Profiling feature by default, which avoids the possible TiFlash OOM issue that occurs when this feature is enabled. For details, see [#5687](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5687).

## Other changes

> - Add the following contents in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package. For details, see [TiDB Installation Packages](/binary-package.md).

Author: It will be available after https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10056 is merged.

> - Add the following contents in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package. For details, see [TiDB Installation Packages](/binary-package.md).

Author: to make the wording consistent with https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/9989/files

    - `prometheus-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `blackbox_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`
    - `node_exporter-{version}-linux-amd64.tar.gz`

- Introduce differentiated supports for different operating systems or platforms. See [].

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!-- <planner> -->
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > # Performance)- Add a new optimizer `SEMI_JOIN_REWRITE` to improve the performance of `EXISTS` queries [#35323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35323)

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support compressing the metrics response using gzip to reduce the HTTP body size [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    - Support reducing the amount of data returned for each request by filtering out some metrics using the [`server.simplify-metrics`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#simplify-metrics-new-in-v620) configuration item [#12355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12355)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145)

+ PD

>     - Improve the speed of the Balance Region during the stage close to completion [#4990](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4990)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Improve the speed of the region balance during the stage close to completion [#4990](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4990)
```

    <!-- <transaction> -->
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the LOAD DATA statement [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue of the `data and columnID count not match` error that occurs when inserting duplicated values with TiDB Binlog enabled [#33608](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33608)
    - Remove the limitation of `tidb_gc_life_time` [#35392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35392)
    - Fix the load data statement dead loop when an empty filed terminator is used [#33298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33298)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Avoid sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

+ TiKV

>     - Fix a bug that regions may be overlapped if Raftstore is busy [#13160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13160)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that Regions might be overlapped if Raftstore is busy [#13160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13160)
```

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that might occur when the source peer catches up logs by snapshot in the Region merge process [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of frequent PD client reconnection that occurs when the PD client meets an error [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345)
    - Fix potential panic when parallel recovery is enabled for Raft Engine [#13123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13123)
    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that the Commit Log Duration of a new Region is too high, which causes QPS to drop [#13077](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13077)
    - Fix a rare case panic when Raft Engine is enabled [#12698](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12698)

>     - Avoid redundant log warnings when procfs is not available [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Avoid redundant log warnings when proc filesystem (procfs) cannot be found [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)
```

>     - Avoid redundant log warnings when proc filesystem (procfs) is not available [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Avoid redundant log warnings when proc filesystem (procfs) cannot be found [#13116](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13116)
```

    - Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086)

>     - Make default `region-split-check-diff` not less than bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when a Region is large, the default [`region-split-check-diff`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-check-diff) might larger than the bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
```

>     - Fix the issue that when a Region is large, the default [`region-split-check-diff`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-check-diff) might larger than the bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when a Region is large, the default [`region-split-check-diff`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-check-diff) might be larger than the bucket size [#12598](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12598)
```

>     - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when Apply Snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
```

>     - Fix panics when apply snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix panics when applying snapshot is aborted and Raft Engine is enabled [#12470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12470)
```

>     - Refactor PD client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR) [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that PD client might deadlock [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)
```

>     - Refactor PD client to avoid potential deadlock(RWR) [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Refactor PD client to avoid potential deadlock (RWR) [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191) [#12933](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12933)
```

>     - Fix the issue that PD client might deadlock [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the PD client might cause deadlocks [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191) [#12933](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12933)
```

+ PD

>     - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when having invalid label settings [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when setting invalid label [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
```

>     - Fix the problem that gRPC handles return errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that PD might panic when enabling `enable-forwarding` and gRPC handles errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the online process is not accurate when setting invalid label [#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the online progress is inaccurate when the label configurations of cluster nodes are invalid[#5234](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5234)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` may return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` might return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)
```

>     - Fix the issue that PD might panic when enabling `enable-forwarding` and gRPC handles errors inappropriately [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix the PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` might return the wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `/regions/replicated` might return a wrong status [#5095](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5095)
```

+ TiFlash

    (dup: release-5.4.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes in some situations [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)
    - Fix the issue that the `format` function might return a `Data truncated` error [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4891)
    - Fix the issue that some obsolete data might persist in storage and cannot be deleted [#5659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5659)
    - Fix unnecessary CPU usage in some edge cases [#5409](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5409)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash cannot work in a cluster using IPv6 [#5247](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5247)
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash might crash due to an error in parallel aggregation [#5356](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5356)
    - Fix a bug that thread resources might leak in case of `MinTSOScheduler` query errors [#5556](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5556)

+ Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to connect to TiDB when TiDB uses IPv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to connect to TiDB when TiDB uses an IPv6 host [#35880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35880)
```

        - Fix the `read index not ready` error by adding a retry mechanism [#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566)
        - Hide sensitive log for server mode [#36374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36374)

>         - Support columns that start with slash/number/non-ascii characters for Parquet files [36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980)
```

>         - Fix the issue that de-duplication might result in panic in extreme cases [#36163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that de-duplication might panic in extreme cases [#34163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34163)
```

>     + TiDB Data Migration

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
```

        - Fix the issue that the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item does not take effect in DM [#6161](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6161)
        - Fix the issue that the `check-task` command cannot handle special characters [#5895](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5895)
        - Fix the issue of the possible data race in `query-status` [#4811](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4811)
        - Fix the different output format for the `operate-schema` command [#5688](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5688)
        - Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193)
        - Fix the issue that DM Worker might get stuck when getting DB Conn [#3733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3733)

>         - Fix the issue that DM fails to start when TiDB uses IPv6 host [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM fails to start when TiDB uses an IPv6 host [#6249](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6249)
```
